Zen here and my favorite hobby is volleyball. I started playing in 6th grade competitively, played casually through high school, and finally joined an organization after college. Back in NYC, I used to play for a queer volleyball organization and even got to be a captain one season! I also recently moved to SF thanks to a remote tech job. Beach volleyball is my favorite and love all the beach options the Bay Area has to offer now that I'm here. And of course I'm already involved with volleyball groups here in SF!

Growing up, I never enjoyed playing sports -- wasn't great at them, didn't find it fun for me, and found the hyper-masculinity of it all too toxic. Volleyball, however, runs in the family and I used to play with my aunts and cousins at family BBQs. This was a great way to be exposed to volleyball and have fun doing it with family. Volleyball is the only sport I really like because it doesn't involve running around too much. Running around isn't great for someone like me with asthma. Nothing like a good, controlled volley back and forth on the court!

If you've never played volleyball, it's very easy to get started. First, be sure to stretch and warm up always. The game is simple: up to 6 players on each side take turns passing the ball to each other. On the third hit, the ball has to go over the net to the other team. If the ball is coming your way, you can set the ball using your fingers and hands, bump the ball with your forearms, or spike it across to score a point. When you score a point, your team rotates positions and a new points begins by serving the ball from the back of the court. The game is usually won by the team that reaches 21 points. There are also specific positions on the court, which I will cover further down. For now, the goal is to have fun!

Practice makes perfect! You can even just practice without a net by passing it to your friends in a circle. This is a great practice for controlling the ball and keeping it up in the air. In volleyball, there are 5 types of hit: serve, set, bump, spike, and pancake. Remember to stay low to the ground with bent knees to be ready to receive and hit the ball. Speak up! Communication is super important in volleyball. When the ball is coming to you, you can say "Got it!" or "Mine!" or "Here!" to let your teammates know you are getting it and to stay out of the way to avoid hurting each other accidentally. It's best practice to pass the ball twice to your teammates and then hit it over on the third. However, a single player is not allowed to hit the ball twice in a row. Lastly you have your court setups (4-2, 5-1, 6-1), court positions (1-6), and player positions (setter and hitter). For example, I'm mainly a setter and working on honing my skills as a hitter. I'm also a great server when it's my turn in the rotation to serve the ball for a new point. There several other positions that depend on the level of play. Feel free to check them out in detail with this resource. Everyone's different, so don't worry if you haven't found the position(s) you prefer. There are many ways to hit the ball and the following resources can help you hone your skills. Here are some additional tips and tricks. To help you understand the game rules a little better, I always refer to these great resources. Best of all, have fun!


Resources:
https://avp.com/news/volleyball-tips-for-beginners
https://www.improveyourvolley.com/volleyball-tips.html
https://www.flovolleyball.tv/articles/5067897-positions-in-volleyball
https://www.improveyourvolley.com/volleyball-positions.html
https://www.improveyourvolley.com/volleyball-techniques.html
https://www.theartofcoachingvolleyball.com/basic-volleyball-rules-and-terminology
https://usavolleyball.org/play/rules-of-volleyball